SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
 
Section 1: Introduction  
 
This handbook is the summary of the policies, procedures, guidance and benefits to the employees 
and organization. It is an introduction to our vision, mission, values, what you expect from us and 
what we expect from you. We believe that employees are the assets of the organization and to 
understand them the positive work environment play an important role. 
 
This Employee Hand Book(EHB) is the confidential property of Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL)  
and any use, distributing, copying or disclosure by any person to outsiders without any proper 
authorization is strictly prohibited. 
 
Any query or doubt concerning the content of the EHB should be forwarded to the Human 
Resources Department of SPIL.  

 
Applicability  

 
This EHB will be applicable to the employees working in Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL) w.e.f 
August 21, 2020. This book contains all the notices/circulars/extracts/meetings circulated earlier 
before the date of validity of this handbook.  
 
Definitions  

 
a) “Company” means Sirca Paints India Limited (SPIL) and will its branches, offices/plants located 

anywhere in India or Abroad.  

 
b) “Board” means the “Board of Directors” of SPIL and it includes all Committee of Directors.  

 
c) “Approving Authority” means the management/higher authority i.e. Managing Director/Director 

of the Company.  

 
d) “Employee” means full time employment/retainership/interns/apprentice/Trainees or any other 

employee who is working with SPIL.  
 

e) “Dependents” means the employees family dependents. Family includes employee mother, 
father, spouse and children. The children age of above 24 will not be included as a Dependent 
Children.  

 
f) “Year” means the financial year i.e. April to March  

 
g) “Base City” means the native location, a permanent residence of the employee.  

 
h) “Posted City” means the work place where the employee will be posted at the time of joining.  

 
i) “Malfeasance” means official misconduct, an unlawful act which affects the performance of 

official duties.  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 

 
 
Section 2: Company Profile 
 
SPIL is a company engaged in marketing and trading/distribution of wood coatings and allied 
products. It is the first company to launch wood filler in India and opened the branches on PAN 
INDIA basis. Sirca Paints specialize in the production of coating for wood. This living material, 
which is increasingly valuable and essential in ecological terms deserves the best possible 
optimization and protection.  
 
Sirca Co-Founders  
 
The foundation of the company was laid down by Mr Sanjay Agarwal & Mr Gurjit Singh Bains in the 
year 2006 with a vision to have a distinct global presence in Paint Industry by providing high 
quality coating and technical assistance which leads to as healthy customer relationship.  
 
Company’s Vision  
 
To be one of the most respectable brands in the category through brand building initiatives, 
providing world class products with consistent, quality, leading to profitability and growth of 
everyone who is associated with the organization.  
 
 
Sales Vision :  RESPECT  
 
 
R : Reliability   You can count on us  
 
E : Excellence   Is our Standard  
 
S : Service   Customer First and accomplish the needs   
 
P : People   Serve People with Fairness & Firmness  
 
E : Empowerment  Enabling each to attain his/her potential  
 
C : Caring   Care for all as we wish to be cared for  
 
T : Team work   Foster a spirit of Team work.  
 
 
Commitment  
 
Sirca tries to provide the solutions as per the customer’s requirement & needs and also leads to 
innovative and cost saving solution within their total production process. "Team Sirca” works had 
to understand their customer’s products and production processes to become their most reliable & 
dependable, complete and innovative supplier for Wood Coating Solutions. 

SPIL Ethics Pledge – Word of Honor  

 It is the responsibility of every employee to put the efforts to achieve the higher productivity 
and service standards.  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
  

  

  

 Respect of the core values, policies and procedures, manuals to achieve the goals of the 
organization.  
 

 Proper and maximum utilization of manpower and resources to ensure the Company’s growth.  
 

 Employee will provide the best solution to the customer’s enquires or grievances.  
 

 Team Work and Excellence in work is working culture of the organization 
 
Section 3: Recruitment  
 
The company policy on recruitment strives for equal opportunity to all irrespective of any 
distinction of gender, sexual orientation, caste or any disable applicants. All appointments will be 
done by the approval of the Director or Managing Director.  
 
Recruitment strategy of SPIL is strictly based on three points  
 

Talent Acquisition   Talent Management   Talent Development  
 
Talent Acquisition:  GROWTH  
 

G: GREAT,  R:Reward,   O: Opportunity,   W:Work,  
 
   T: Team  H: Helpful  
 

GREAT REWARD AND OPPORTUNITY OF WORK WITH TEAM AND HELPFUL ATMOSPHERE  
 

This policy covers the vacant position on PAN India basis across the functions, department, level, 
grade and hierarchy. The following steps are to be followed to hire the candidate  
 
a) The proper details will be given to the HR Department related to the candidate job description, 

age, gender, salary package, no of subordinates, qualifications and experience.  
 

b) The above details will be approved the Director/Managing Director and forward the details to 
the HR Department for the further step.  

 
c) HR Department will initiate the process of recruitment and hire the candidate from various 

sources like Employment Sites, Internal Job Posting, Referral Candidate Scheme, Campus 
Recruitment and Placement Agencies.  

 

Process of Recruitment: Candidate will be searched based upon the project assigned to the 
concerned department. The Department Head will send the email to the HR Department for the 
proper resources.  

 

 



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
  

  

  

 Academic Qualification: Minimum qualification will be considered to fulfill the need of job 
responsibilities as per the vacant positions.  
 

 Short Listing : The candidate will be short listed on the basis of criteria mentioned in the job 
description. If required the Management can also considered the fresher’s candidate. 
Fresher’s Candidate short listing will be done on marks obtained in the graduation or post 
graduation.  

 

 Short-listed candidate will receive the email from the HR Department regarding the 
Company Profile, Interview Venue, Date, Time and other details (if required)  

 

 After short-listing, the Interview Recruitment Cell will take the interview of the candidate 
and the evaluation will be done. Interview Recruitment Cell will include the four members 
i.e. Technical Interviewer/Chief Financial Officer/Director/HR Representative.  

 

 After review and screening, the candidate will be finalized and transfer to the HR 
Department for Salary Negotiation.  

 
 Approval from the Interview Recruitment Cell will be taken and the details to be submitted 

that the recruitment will be done in the lieu of Business Expansion or Replacement. Based 
upon the discussion, the candidate will be finalized and the Offer Letter will be issued. 

 

 HR Department can initiate the process of “Reference Check” once the candidate will be 
finalized. On the discretion of the Interview Recruitment Cell, the reference check of the 
candidate will be waived off.  

 

 After Issuance of the Offer Letter, the candidate has to provide the acceptance of the same 
and submit the resignation copy to the HR Department.  

 

 The documents given in the Offer Letter will be submitted to the HR Department on the Date 
of Joining mention in the letter. HR Representative ensure that the all statutory forms will 
be filled by the employee. After submission of the above the HR Department will commence 
the process of the Induction and on-boarding process.  
 

New Hire Travel Expenses  
 
For the closure of the position, if the candidate will call from outside location. The Travel 
Expenses will be given as per the Travel Policy.  
 
New Hire Relocation Expenses  
 
The intercity relocation expenses may be considered for critical positions at per the discretion of 
the Management.  
 



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
Campus Recruitment  
 
The above method plays very important role in the Recruitment Section. This will help to build 
the cadre of the students. The company can hire the students to give the right path and 
enhance their skills/abilities. The Company can hire the two ways recruitment section  
 
a) Internships Programme 

 
b) Campus Placement – On Roll Jobs  

 

Internships Programme: The Company can hire the students from the Reputed Colleges 
depend upon the number of students required for the particular project. The stipend will be 
given to the student amount of Rs 7000/- to boost the morale.  

The Department Heads will inform the HR Department in advance regarding the hiring of the     
students from colleges.  

Campus Placement – On Roll Jobs: While completing the education, the organization can hire 
the students as Management Trainee/Graduate Engineer Trainee/Junior Executives. The 
proper pay structure will be given to the students with the slab of Rs 250000 to 350000 per 
annum. The amount will be strictly based upon the Interview’s Performance.  

And based upon the performance of the candidate after a year, the Management 
Trainee/Graduate Engineer Trainee/Junior Executives will be promoted on the “Executive” 
Grade.  

Induction:  

a) Induction session of the organization comprises the information of the Organization Policy, 
Vision, Mission, Strategy and locations details.  
 

b) The HR Representative will give the proper induction training to the candidate and assign the 
HR Buddy for the candidate for 3 months only.  

 
c) The HR Representative will provide the Induction Kit, Stationary Kit, HR Manual and 

Brouchers&Pamphlets.  
 

d) First Day Lunch of the candidate will be organized by the Organisation.  
 

Section 4: Training & Development  

a) Sirca is the career and long term orientation and commitment to guide and develop the 
employees through the job training. To identify the training needs, the HR Representative 
have to identify at three levels :  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 

 

Individual Level, Department Level &Organisational Level. 

 

b) Training Needs will be identified at the end of the Financial Year, during the Performance 
Appraisal.  
 

c) While evaluating the Performance Appraisal, Department Head will mention the details of the 
training on Individual Level/Department Level or Organisation Level.  

 
d) While Identify the training for the employee, the Department Head will have to check the 

number of the employee attend that particular training during the year and based upon that 
the plan will be prepared.   

 
e) Proper Form or the formal email with the approval of the Director/Managing Director will be 

given to the HR Representative.  
 

f) HR Representative will coordinate and arrange the training session for the candidates. The 
responsibility of the HR Representative to ensure that at least 4 people will be engaged in the 
particular training.  

 
g) With the consultation of the management, HR Representative can amend the training session 

based upon the availability of the faculty and the participant.  
 

h) In addition, the candidate who will participate in the paid training session, the proper training 
bondwill be signed by the employee and the duration of the training bond will be decided by 
the Management.  

 

Training Feedback  

a) After the training session, the employee has to submit the evaluator’s feedback to the 
organization.  
 

b) The Department Head will evaluate the employee after the particular training session on 
quarterly basis and submit the report to the HR Department.  

 
c) After the particular session, if the employee becomes the high-potential and benefit to the 

organization, then the additional incentive will be given.  
 

Section 5: Probation and Confirmation  

Probation : 

a) The probation period is the two way street for an employee, where the employee assess 
whether the role is suitable for them and the company is one they want to work for.  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
b) The main purpose of the probation period is to bring an effective employee on board and 

thorough monitoring and performance management process. 
 
c) It covers all the on roll new entrants in the organization and the candidate will be on 

probation of six months  
 

Process of Confirmation  

a) Appointment Letter given at the time of joining shows the clause of Probation Period. Every 
Employee has to complete the Probation Period on the basis of the following parameters.  

Job Knowledge, Quality of Work, Initiative and Creativity, Punctuality, Interpersonal Skills  

b) On the beginning of the six month, the email will given to the Departmental Heads for the 
assessment of the new entrants on the above parameters.  
 

c) The Department Head will assess the performance and submit the review of the employee to 
the HR Department.  

 
d) Employee has to earn the minimum category of “Average” and maximum category of 

“Excellent” for the confirmation.  
 

e) Depend upon the performance of the probationers and discretion of the management, the 
probationer’s compensation, grade, designation can be reviewed for motivation and better 
productivity.  

 
f) If the category earn was below “Average” then the extension for the probation of minimum of 1 

month and maximum of 3 months will be issued.  
 

g) The employee has to submit the acknowledgement copy of the probation for the record 
purpose.  

 
Section 6: Attendance & Leave Management  
 

a) Employees are required to register their attendance electronically while reporting to work and 
before leaving the office through Attendance Biometric installed in the office premises, if not 
done then the attendance for the particular day will be considered as “Absent” and the 
deduction of pay and the leave will be done.  
 

b) Working Days :  Monday to Saturday  

  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
c) For the betterment and work life balance, the organization had introduced the flexi-timing 

option. The details are as follows:  
i. 9 : 30 AM to 6 : 00 PM  

 
ii. 10 : 00 AM to 6 : 30 PM    

 
d) On the note of the above, 15 minutes will be considered as “Grace Period”, and beyond                

15 minutes the leave will be deducted.   
 

e) Based upon the extreme emergency, the employees are allowed to come late till 11:45 AMfor 
two or three occasions and if required then leave the office by 4:30 PM this will strictly based 
upon the consent of the Management or Reporting Officers.  

 
f) Beyond the above mention timings, the half day leave will be considered.  

 
g) Employees who are on “Official Duty” (OD) or “On Tour” (OT) are requested to take the 

written approval in advance from their Reporting Officer and submit the same to the HR 
Department for record and attendance purpose.  

 
h) Employee will be eligible for 2 leaves in a month and the same can be avail after the 

completion of month. The leave given to the employee will be strictly based on the Date of 
Joining (i.e. Pro-Rata Basis). Employee who joins on the following dates will be eligible for the 
leave.  

 
1st to 7th of every month  : 2 

 
8th to 14th of every month : 1.5  

 
15th to 21st of every month : 1 

 
22nd to 31st of every month : 0.5  
 

i) The Leave given to the employee will be counted on Financial Year (i.e. April to March) and the 
balance as on March will be credited to the next financial year of employee leave balance 
account. The leave will not be En-cashed.  
 

j) Employee will inform in advance of 3 days before taking the leave and also specify the reason 
of the leave. Absence from office without information will be treated as “Absent” and same 
will attract the salary deduction. 
 

k) On extreme emergency, the employee will inform the leave to the Reporting Officer or HR 
Department via phone/message or email. 

 
 
 



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
l) Marketing Department will submit the “Daily Time Report” (DTR) to their Reporting Officers 

and based upon their DTR the attendance will be marked. Reporting Officers will inform to 
the HR Department regarding the attendance of their respective team members/subordinate.  

 
m) Employee who will take the leave on Saturday and Monday, then the Sunday of that 

particular week will also be included.  
 

n) It is clear state that company follows the rule “NO WORK NO PAY”and unauthorized absent 
will be treated as “LOSS OF PAY”. 

 
o) It should be clearly understood that the responsibility of completion the attendance lies under 

the account of “EMPLOYEE” only.  
 

p) Maternity and Paternity Leave for the employee will be applicable as per the Maternity Act 
1961. 

 
q) If the employee will take the continuous leave after festival then the festival will be considered 

as a Leave. 
 

r) Sunday will be treated as a leave, if the employee will take a leave on Saturday and Monday.  
 

Section 7: Compensatory Leave: 
 
a) Employee who work on Sunday’s/Public Holiday will be eligible for the Compensatory Leave. 

Every Employee will take the approval or provide the information to their Reporting Officer 
and HR Department regarding the working of the days above.  
 

b) Employee who will on Sunday’s/Public Holiday, the lunch of Rs 100/- will be given to the 
employee. The same will be arranged by the Administration Department or by the employee 
and after that he/she can take the reimbursement for the same.  

 
c) To avail the Compensatory Leave, the employee has to complete minimum 6 hours of work. 

 
d) Before avail the Compensatory Leave, the employee has to inform in advance of 3 days.  

 
e) Compensatory Leave will not be taken in the long period leave. For Example if the employee 

will take the leave on Saturday as “Compensatory Leave” and also take the leave on Monday 
as Leave, then the Compensatory Leave will not be considered.  

 
f) Compensatory Leave will be avail within the month and the same will not be credited and 

lapsed after the month. For Example: If the employee will work on 26th Aug, then the 
employee can avail the compensatory leave till 25th Sept, not beyond than that.  

 
 
 



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 
 

 
Section 8: Office Security  
 
a) All Employees who are issued keys to the office are responsible for their safe keeping.  

 
b) The last employee worked at the end of the business working hours or designated employee 

will be responsible for the office security like all doors are securely locked, all appliances and 
lights are turned off with exception of the light normally left on for security purposes.  

 
c) Each Employee is expected to obey the rules and regulations abide by the Management 

related to the security purpose.  
 

d) All Employees are responsible for their own personal belonging and properties left in office. 
The Company assumes no liabilities for any loss or damage  to personal belonging and 
property.  

 
e) The office space, equipment, material and other properties shall be used only for Sirca Paints 

India Limited (SPIL). Employee who uses the company property like : Laptop, Mobile Phones, 
Camera, Projectors and other material are responsible for the sake keeping of these 
equipment.  

 
f) To make the safety and security of the employees of Sirca, only authorize vendors are allowed 

to visit to the workplace. All vendors are authorized to enter through the main lift area and 
wait at the main reception area (if required). The proper visitor ID card will be given to the 
visitors before entering to the office.  

 
Section 9: Transfer Provision  

a) The company has to right to transfer you with immediate effect either in the subsidiary or 
associate of SIRCA or any location.  

b) In case of transfer of location, the employee is eligible to take the leave of 4 days as “Special 
Leave” by said leave; the employee can make the arrangement of shifting and resettlement.  

c) The employee will facilitate by the company by providing the “Relocation Grant” as the lump 
sum amount of one month salary for the arrangement of shifting, school and other 
miscellaneous expenses.  

d) The “Relocation Grant” amount will be approved by the Director/Managing Director.  

e) Relocation Grant will be given when the employee and his family will be transfer from one 
location to another. For Example: If the employee posted location is Delhi/NCR and based 
upon the project exigency the employee will transfer to Lucknow or any other place then the 
Relocation Grant will be applicable.  

f) The relocation grant will not be applicable when the employee will transfer from 150 kms 
from the posted location.  



 SPIL Corporate HR Policies  
 

 

g) For Transferee, the clause of employment, policies and procedures of new company will be 
applicable. The proper appointment letter and other joining material will be given.  

Section 10:  Notices Period 

a) On Probation, the employee can resigns from the services by giving 10 days of notice.  
 

b) On Confirmation, the employee can resign from the services by giving the notice of 30 days 
(i.e. one month).  

 
c) The employee has to fill the Exit Interview Form and Clearance Form when resigned from 

the services. Exit Interview will directly submit to the HR Department either in the form of 
hard copy or soft copy. The HR Representative will take the Exit Interview and highlight the 
reason of resignation of the employee to the Management. Management decides and 
confirms if “retain” process will take place.  

 
d) Clearance Form means that the employee have to take the clearance from different 

department i.e. Accounts (for dues/advances), Information Technology (IT) (for deactivation 
of email id and submission of Laptop/Desktop), Administration (for submission of mobile 
sim, mobile phone, keys, stationary, Data Cards etc) and after that the form will be 
submitted to the HR Department for process of Full and Final Settlement.  

 
e) In addition of the above, Marketing Executive/Representative will take the clearance from 

the market (i.e. Balance Confirmation from the parties, submission of Form C and other 
details).  

 
f) After verbal discussion with the employee, Department Heads will accept or reject the 

Resignation Letter within 5 working days from the Date of Resignation.  
 

g) The full and final process will take around 30 days to complete. In case, if the employee had 
no dues with the organisation then the salary will be credited on the same month.  

 
h) If any grievances remain unresolved, the employee can directly contact to HR Representative 

at hr@sircapaints.com 
 
 

Section 11: Grievances Redressal System 
 
The objective of the Grievances Redressal procedure is to provide an easily accessible for 
settlement of the grievances in the organisation. Grievances can be defined as any 
communication that expresses dissatisfaction about an action or lack of action, about the 
standard of service.